---
title: Organised speaking – Throw 1, Speak 1
author: Steph

date: 2015-01-08T10:33:25+00:00
categories:
  - Community
tags:
  - 'statuspost'
  - presentation
  - speaking
  - user group

---
Following up from my last post on <a href="https://itsalocke.com/index.php/organised-speaking-session-abstracts/" title="Organised speaking – session abstracts" target="_blank">maintaining my session abstracts</a>, I wanted to cover how I&#8217;m doing my scheduling this year for speaking at events. Perhaps more importantly than tech, is the intention and the planning process so I&#8217;ll be covering these factors in more detail than the tech.

## Technology

I make use of Google services quite a bit, and their [calendar][1] system is a great help. So this year I&#8217;ve added a calendar that has all mine (and hopefully Oz&#8217;s) speaking engagements.

I&#8217;m then utilising a WordPress plugin called [GCal events][2] to connect to the calendar and pull the info into a [page][3].

## Throw 1, Speak 1

The goal this year is to throw one user group event and speak at one event each month.
  
<!--more-->

### Background

Last year, I just did whatever I felt like doing in terms of running my [SQL user group in Cardiff][4] and presenting at different bits and bobs.

It went pretty well, in the sense that the user group had more than 20 events, and I spoke at SQLBits, SQLRelay, SQLSaturday, the PASS BI Virtual Chapter, and the Birmingham & Cardiff user groups.

I was quite haphazard about it and in some cases I did more than 5 presentations in the space of a month and then in others I didn&#8217;t do any. Thankfully I only did a couple of different presentations but it doesn&#8217;t seem scalable or sensible to do it the way I have done so far.

### Benefits

The way I see it, setting out my plans means that:

  * I have to measure it
  * under-achieving results in me feeling crappy thus prompting me to be better
  * if I do too much then in many respects I&#8217;ve also not achieved my goal so it&#8217;s a good brake on my tendency to over-work. I really don&#8217;t want to make Oz a SQL widow!

## Throw 1

I&#8217;m covering this in-depth in the blog post <a href="https://itsalocke.com/index.php/organised-speaking-throw-1/" title="Organised speaking - throw 1" target="_blank">Throw 1</a> which discusses my upcoming plans for user groups.

## Speak 1

I&#8217;m covering this in-depth in the blog post <a href="https://itsalocke.com/index.php/organised-speaking-prioritising-events-to-speak-at/" title="Speak 1" target="_blank">Speak 1</a> &#8211; coming out soon!

## Conclusion

Hopefully, I&#8217;ve provided some insight into the labyrinthine scheduling criteria in my crazy world. I think it&#8217;s important to be upfront with yourself about what you can realistically keep up and what you&#8217;d like to achieve. Once you know these you can build a plan and set about achieving it.

Getting into speaking is easy, and it really helps so even if you don&#8217;t speak regularly, why not contact someone near you to speak at their event? Or get in touch about speaking in person or remotely at SQL Cardiff!
   
\[contact-form subject='[It%26#039;s a Locke&#8217;\]\[contact-field label=&#8217;Name&#8217; type=&#8217;name&#8217; required=&#8217;1&#8217;/\]\[contact-field label=&#8217;Email&#8217; type=&#8217;email&#8217; required=&#8217;1&#8217;/\]\[contact-field label=&#8217;Speaking at SQL Cardiff &#8211; are you in?&#8217; type=&#8217;textarea&#8217; required=&#8217;1&#8217;/\][/contact-form]

 [1]: http://calendar.google.com "Google calendar"
 [2]: https://wordpress.org/plugins/gcal-events-list/ "Gcal events"
 [3]: https://itsalocke.com/index.php/wheres-steff-oz/ "Where’s Steff & Oz?"
 [4]: http://www.meetup.com/Cardiff-SQL-Server-User-Group/ "SQL Cardiff"