---
title: "SatRdays Cardiff"
author: "Ellen"
date: '2018-06-25'
tags:
- Conferences
- SatRdays
categories:
- Conferences
---


Friday afternoon began with a hot and sticky drive, a 2 hour delay on the M6 and a rumbling tummy, but I made it to Cardiff just in time to catch a drink with a few of the Cardiff R user group! I was welcomed warmly by all, but most warmly of all by Steph's dogs, Obi and Leia, with whom I was spending the night to make an early start on Saturday morning.

We arrived at the venue at Cardiff university so early that even the coffee shop wasn't open yet - but whilst we were setting up the Locke Data stall, complete with life size chibi (head not to scale!) and freebies - some pastries and coffee arrived to start/save the day. The morning workshops got off to a great start, and I went and sat in on Steph's Tidy Data Science workshop. I wanted to see Steph present in person for the first time, and I just knew there would be some great nuggets of info in there for me to take away. I felt like I was being let in on a naughty secret when she told us about the `skimr` and `dataexplorer` packages! Everybody should have those in their back pocket! 

Lunch arrived and all too soon it was time for me to present. After watching Amy present and handle her questions like a practised pro I was up! This was my longest presentation to date, but I was looking forward to it and unusually for me, didn't get any last minute jitters. I was so chuffed with how well received it was - a few people had seen me present the problem in Manchester a while back, and said how pleased they were that I had found a way around it. The questions I received were tricky but engaging and provided plenty of food for thought for future work - so maybe watch this space and see if I end up going along to SatRdays Amsterdam in September to present anything I come up with between now and then? 

Ellen :) 


Saturday began like any other day for me, other than the nerves of speaking at my first SatRdays Cardiff event! I woke up, got ready (kids included) and bid fairwell to my family. Racked with nerves about doing my first talk, I stolled through Cardiff trying to enjoy the lovely weather. I arrived at the event to see some familiar and friendly faces from Team Locke, and some newer faces for people making the journey. The morning was very enjoyable, sitting at our booth while the workshops took place, allowing me some time to mentally prepare to give my afternoon talk.

As lunch time arrived, my family arrived! Steph is very keen on making speaking easier and more accessible to women (especially us mothers)! We had a quick bite to eat, and the kids loved playing with life size Steph Chibi! Then it was time! We all strolled over to the rooms where talks were being held, I could feel the nerves building as we got closer. The room was quite intimidating for a first time speaker, looking up and seeing row after row of seats - hoping they wouldn't be filled! After a few technical issues in getting the laptops and presentation all setup, while listening to chants from my 3 year old calling "Mummy, Mummy!" cheering me on with his dad. Just as I was about to begin my talk, my daughter thought this would be a perfect time to toddle on over for a quick cuddle. After I got the motherly duties out of the way, my talk began.

The room wasn't overfilled however this didn't stop me being nervous, I forgot my words a little and had to skip a slide. However once I got into the swing of it, things came a little more naturally (even though nerves were still on high). Overall it was a very nerve racking but enjoyable experience, and I got to talk about one of my favourite tools (Airtable), and received plenty of encouragement from my family and co-workers. A big thank you to Dave for asking questions, to try and prompt more information on the topic, but also for organising this amazing event (not forgetting the bottle of wine for helping with the organisation)!

Amy :/
